		PRESERVING THE ELECTRONIC FRONTIER

	The Internet as we know it today, is a collection of technological acheivements from all over the world. It is a scientific masterpice, recording our thoughts, imaginations, and maybe even our very essence. It has beome part of us, we seek it each and every time we have a question or any kind of thirst for knowledge. In a way, it has become the choice for Intellectual Augmentation for any who is willing to learn it's devices. It may have many names, but the one most important aspect is the simulated space in which it provides. Cyberspace we call it, a non existing place where ideas can be traded at the speed of light, duplicated and replicated at virtually no cost. Paul Day, in "Cyber Attack" defines this as: "cyberspace is not a foreign country or a mythical land. Cyberspace is a human construct that is infinitely malleable by both operators and skilled hackers." Until recently, Cyberspace was relatively safe, filled with electronic communication geeks, and hobbyists, with virtually no major consequences for anything traded or abused. It was not until recently that Cyberspace has become almost completely interconnected with the outside world. Because of this, because of the powers that it could possibly posess to manipulate the real world, there are those out to profit on it's ability, willing to destroy Cyberspace with Cyber-Warfare, unless we do something to stop it.

	Cyberspace has not always been an important medium in our dialy lives. It does not just consist of facebook, twitter, and all the "lolcat" pages that so many obsess over, it is the space in which government organizations communicate with one another through. It is the space in which NASA delivers it's data through, reaching out into the stars. It is a web, that now not only encompasses the planet earth, but now expands past our moon, and in some ways, can be considered to have passed even pluto delivering data to the people of earth from the space probe, Voyager. The beginnings of cyberspace was filled with hobbyists, students, and hackers. The importance of Cyberspace was mostly within the social and intellectual pursuits of their users. There was no important banking, or tax filing, it did not contain the actual identities of their users, and if it were shut down tomorrow those of that time would hardly skip a beatin normal life. Today this is much different, if our ability to access our lives within Cyberspace, was suddenly interrupted, many of us would not be able to practice our employment duties, and our basic forms of communication with our family and friends would vanish.

	Cyberspace has a flaw, it was never intended to be one of the main drivers for commerce in our society, and the computers which run it, cannot descipher between malicious and safe code during operation. Because of this, it lacks in security allowing certain malicious powers to manipulate it's functionality. In it's greatest consequence, this requires developers all over the world to reinvent the wheel in a more secure way, whenever a security flaw is found.In fact, the original Network most closely related to our Internet of today, was ARPANET, produced by the government to allow communications across the country even within a nuclear event. Despite it's percieved indestructability, the elements of cyber crime, and cyber warfare could potentially destroy Cyberspace as we know it.

	The greatest of all threats to Cyberspace is Cyber War. Cyber war between governments can result in any Internet connected device being destroyed. An example of this was recently discovered that it was the Stuxnet worm in which destroyed the Iranian nuclear facility, by deactivating all of the safety features within the plant. Until recently, it was not known if a cyber attack could actually destroy a facility of hardware. There is another product of Cyber War, and that is, Cyber Espionage. Cyber Espionage is something highly practiced, and recently most well known by the United States NSA. The NSA is notorious for tracking and consuming all data in which it can get it's hands on. The recent leaks by Edward Snowden disclosed to the world specifically the data in which they capture, and where it is captured. These leaks had an interesting effect on the existing hacker underground. Julian Assange wrote a now common opinion in his book, within the first page of "Cypherpunks," "The internet, our greatest tool of emancipation, has been transformed into the most dangerous facilitator of totalitarianism we have ever seen. The internet is a threat to human civilization."

	Cyber war is a war of intelligence, strategy, and methods. There is no way to actually know for sure who is the true attacker when plausible denyability is involved. Any computer can be hijacked to commit a crime, there is no way to actually link an individual or entity to a malicious attack. Therefore, Cyber War is a war of intelligence, in a battle field of relativity. The simplest method of producing plausible denyability is by using some simple tools in which are usually free. With a VPN, or a Proxy, an individual can route all the packets and commands from his computer through another. Typically, a Proxy host would have an endless quantity of other customers on the same server, and if that host does not retain any logs on their customers, the attack is virtually untraceable. It is also good to note that if an agency has enough resources to produce a worm as powerful as Stuxnet, then it would be easy to assume that they have greater resources to masking the origins of their attacks.

	In 1991, the internet shifted into a new age with the release of PGP by Philip Zimmermann, a light at the end of the tunnel finally appeared for those who wished to be private in Cyberspace. The United States government saw it as a threat to their empire, and instituted an investigation against Zimmermann. In June of 1996, he held a meeting with the US sennate, stating his reasons for creating PGP, "Like every new technology, this comes at some cost. Cars pollute the air and cause traffic jams. Cryptography can help criminals hide their activities. People in the law enforcement and intelligence communities are going to look at this only in their own terms. But even with these costs, we still can't stop this from happening in a free market global economy," basically stating, that if he did not create PGP, somebody else simply would have.

	Encryption was created to harden networks of communication against intrusion and espionage. The general public lacks knowledge when it comes to encryption, and tends to feel that it is only a device for hackers and criminals. When data is encrypted, and only allowed to be decrypted by those who have the proper keys, this prevents any foreign entity from spying on their subject. When data is encrypted on the system its self, only the operators who are permitted to access the system can access it. Encryption alone cannot fully protect a system, but it can harden it from access well enough to deter any further intrusion attempts. If decryption keys are stolen from an individual, the data can essentially be decrypted, and if the keys are given to those in the wrong hands, it can completely disrupt the whole purpose of encryption.

	Governments are afraid of allowing encryption to exist in the hands of the citizens. With the NSA and their system of monitoring americans requires that most of the data going around on the internet to be non encrypted. If each packet of data that was sent across the network was encrypted, it would require the NSA to produce super-computers capable of decrypting each paket. Before the age of the Internet, if the government wanted to spy on someone, they would have to actually physically arrive at the locations of the person of interest, effectively limiting the number of individuals that they could spy on at the same time. With the Internet, and super computers, they can seimotaniously spy on millions if not billions of people at a lower risk of detection. It was only until recently that the idea of the NSA spying on individuals was considered a conspiracy theory. Today, after the leaks provided by Snowden, this theory was proven as Fact, confirmed by the NSA themselves. 

	We will soon reach a moment in history where encryption will place an extra barrier against surveillance and spying within cyberspace. More and more people are embracing encryption, even the latest iPhones place full-disk encryption by default. When practicing Cyber Espionage against a bulk of people it is important not to allow the people to have encryption. The moment when a small population of individuals begins to encrypt their data, the usefulness of espionage decreases, as databases begin to fill up with data which is useless unless encrypted. The cost to decrypt the data without the encryption keys is enormious, as it requires incredibly powerful computers to place brute-force attacks upon the block of data. If enough individuals encrypted their data, the cost of Cyber Espionage would simply be too great, and far too ineffective. As a result, any small country such as, North Korea, or Iran wishing to play the game of Cyber Espionage against the United States, would simply be unable to afford the computers required to decrypt the data. Yet, as encryption is cheaper and takes virtually no computing power to decrypt data when the proper decryption keys are held, North Korea, and Iran could defend their own countries interests against their enemies.

	Encryption is the key to privacy and security within Cyberspace. It gives it's user the freedom to disclose what private information he or she wishes without exposing anything more. It secures us from prying eyes, and prevents surveillance states from developing with the increasing cost to decrypt the encrypted data. An unintended consequence is that it can also protect an enemy from surveillance hindering the authorities power to gain evidence upon that specific individual. If encryption is not placed into use by a larger population, governments will continue to escellate their Cyber Espionage programs making war on each other and their people. The escellation to Cyber War could potentially interrupt ecommerce, power stations, and satellite communications. Our lives are now broadcat through Cyberspace, to have a choice which data is expose to the public is a fundamental freedom and would provide a safer cleaner Cyberspace.
